---
title: Colophon
author: Yoosuf
date: 2013-01-02 17:05:23
excerpt: ""
layout: post
permalink: /blog/colophon/
published: true
---
I've been using various CMS platforms since the day I started creating my website. Time to time I used the hosted solutions such as Tumblr, Blogger, JeKyll and so on and then decided to go with the Custom CMS application (hosted on AppEngine and Developed with Django). and finally decided to move on with the powerful WordPress.

I got many reasons for choosing the WordPress, the most amazing feature is <a href="http://ios.wordpress.org" target="_blank">WordPress iOS app</a>, since I do travel allot in public transport it is a added advantage for me, I do write the topics what ever kicks in my mind and saving as a draft then later on when I am sat in the computer I review them and publish, actually it helps my travailing time productively.

Additionally plug-ins of the Wordpress are so powerful and mostly free of charge, so it is an added advantage for a personal website, I am using following plug-ins to enhance the WordPress features and they are following
<h2>Yoast SEO plugin</h2>
<a title="Yoast Wordpress SEO Plug-in" href="http://yoast.com/wordpress/seo/" target="_blank">Yoast SEO Plug-in</a> is a powerful plug-in to optimise the WordPress' SEO feature and it is an all in one plug-in form Search Engine Optimisation and Social Media Optimisation. I personally like this plug-in and I'v used this plug-in for many client projects and I've seen the better results in SEO and Social Media Optimisation.
<h2>Simple 301 redirect</h2>
Since I am migrated form Tumblr, I had to use <a title="Wordpress Simple 301 redirects Plug-in" href="http://www.scottnelle.com/simple-301-redirects-plugin-for-wordpress/" target="_blank">Simple 301 redirect</a> plug-in to remap the old posts with the new URL, for an example the <a title="Best PHP IDE and Editors" href="http://yoosuf.me/blog/best-php-ide-and-editors/">Best PHP IDE and Editors</a> and the <a title="Tree-swing" href="http://yoosuf.me/blog/tree-swing/">Tree Swing</a> posts are high ranked posts in this website and yet i want my visitors to see that post without seeing the nasty Not found page. Also before I used .html extension in the URL but current URL is clean, for that reason also i used this simple plug-in, yet the users will see the page without doing any other actions.
<h2>Amazon S3 for WordPress with CloudFront</h2>
I am usin the Amazon S3 bucket to host my files, <a title="Amazon S3 for WordPress with CloudFront" href="http://wordpress.org/extend/plugins/tantan-s3-cloudfront/" target="_blank">Amazon S3 for WordPress with CloudFront</a> plugin gives me one click acces to my Amazon bucket form WordPrsss.

At the moment I am using only the above mentioned plug-ins, in my new design there are possibility to introduce more plug-ins.